Transcribe verbatim.
bring enough money with me to buy it it's a good sign you know that i shouldn't have it back
and that i should go do something else but if i was supposed to have it if i was supposed to
continue on if i was supposed to get it back i would have bought it and i would that would be
a good sign to go on but cody didn't bring enough money and and he lost and he just has refused to
give it up the town because their plans that they made for rezoning that two acres when they
rezoned gus harris's two acres south of me when i stepped in you know and god put me there to buy
that property and uh you know they their plans were um done with they were eliminated they were
stopped you know they should have moved on they should have looked for a better place
and i know cody wanted to he took this is this is something important
he wanted the concrete plant to be out there by hot sulfur springs just uh east of hot sulfur springs
and you know i didn't really care i didn't go to any of the meetings or anything
but uh they turned it down and it was way outside of town it was downwind of the town but this was
very interesting and this is why we should have had a change of venue in the court proceedings
we should have had this move to steamboat because the judge who said that the judge who said that
sat at our trial uh the judge had gone to those meetings in 97 i believe it was 97 when cody tried
to get that out there by hot sulfur springs the judge owned property across the highway to the
north and the judge and his wife went to the the meetings before the county to oppose this
concrete plant being there because
it was going to devalue their property.
And the letters are there at the county,
at the Hutzhofer Springs,
at the courthouse there.
And I found this out a couple of weeks after I lost the case.
I heard somebody said that he had fought this,
this judge had.
And so I went down to the court and I found these records,
and there's copies of those are in the back of that Subaru, I believe.
His letter from his wife and what she said.
And these were strictly, you know, from the judge's heart.
It wasn't from his wife, it was from him,
because he was at those meetings.
And it's right in the record.
When you go to those meetings, you have to sign in,
and he signed in.
And he should have recused himself from doing this,
but by doing what he did,
by making the judgment in favor of the Docheffs and the town,
he ensured,
that it would never come back to be at that location,
in the gravel pit, across from his property.
And, you know, my attorney,
as paid off as he was,
however they got to him,
or whatever his thinking was,
he even told me that I should write the judge
and ask him to set aside his,
his verdict.
And that we should have a new judge redo it.
But, you know, what was the point?
I spend another $50,000 with this attorney,
so that we go fight it someplace else?
You know, that's all he was doing,
was making money on the deal.
He didn't care if I win or lose.
As a matter of fact, in one of the letters he sent me,
which is a copy in the computer,
and in the back of the Subaru,
he said that he wouldn't appeal it.
I always told him.
I said,
Dietz, if this is good enough to take to court the first time,
and in the face of all the negative feelings that I have about winning it,
I said,
it's good enough, if we lose, to appeal it to a higher court.
Dietz wouldn't do it.
He would not appeal it,
even after I told him that the judge had fought this concrete plant
when it was going to be across from his property,
which wasn't even downwind,
apparently,
of the property.
You know, it was right beside it,
but it was, for the most part,
upwind of the darn concrete plant.
And the property wouldn't have been affected near as badly
as my property was,
or the town property of my neighbors.
And, anyway,
Dietz has said that he would not appeal it,
and he said this in a letter,
because he had future cases coming up in front of Judge Doucette.
And he felt that if he appealed Judge Doucette's ruling,
that it would affect adversely on him in these other cases.
Well,
I'm sorry, I don't know what that is called,
but, without a doubt, it was wrong.
You know,
if he was willing to take my money
for all those months,
and years,
that we fought this thing,
convincing me all along that we were going to win,
that it was the right thing,
I was doing the right thing,
you know, he really should have done it
without being paid.
But,
and I should have been smart enough to tell him that,
clear back there when we had the,
when they made that resolution in 2000,
that he shouldn't get paid anymore.
You know, but I,
I didn't know,
I didn't know about how towns operate.
Especially, I didn't know they were that crooked.
So,
you know, I made a mistake.
I made a lot of mistakes.
And what did they teach me?
I mean, why?
So I learned how to,
to,
to go to FDIC auctions, maybe,
and buy property,
and if there was a,
the previous owner did against me,
at the future auctions,
when I bought this property,
that I would just sell it real quick.
What, what good does that do me,
when I'm 65 years old,
if that's when the FDIC starts selling properties
that have been foreclosed on again,
if there's a glut of those on the market,
because the economy drops.
I don't need that kind of money at 65.
I needed it when I was in my 40s and my 50s.
That's,
that's,
that's when it should have been here.
And it's not here.
So the money that I've got is of no use to me,
because I am not going to live the life they want me to live.
You know, they think that I should have to stay down there in Granby.
I should have kept my muffler shop going.
I should have put up with all the dust,
all the,
the snickers,
you know, the,
the, the town council.
I'd pass them in the post office,
and they'd snicker at me after they knew I lost.
Uh,
on the street,
Casey Farrell.
I,
I mean,
the guy,
what a,
what a barbarian.
You know,
he's just a very sick man.
Uh,
he comes across as being one of those good,
good guys,
and he's,
he's nothing like that at all.
He's,
he's just,
he's part of the problem.
As,
as we're,
with that whole system down there.
You know,
the good old boy,
the good old boy system.
When you,
when you,
when you come up against a person like me,
you know,
you,
you gotta help me.
Throw me a bone.
You wouldn't throw me anything.
You know,
you couldn't,
I mean,
when Cody first came to those meetings,
he said he would put up walls,
and he would do all this different stuff.
We don't have any of it.
It doesn't make any sense.
Other than that,
it was the good old boys,
patting each other on the back.
Well,
you should have made me,
if not one of the good old boys,
you should have given me a bone to get out of there,
so that I could leave you alone and do what you wanted.
You know,
I put the property up for sale as almost as soon as this,
this PDO started.
Get me out of here.
But you,
you couldn't read that.
If,
and if you did,
you read it,
read it so that you said,
ha,
we got him.
We know he wants to get out of there.
We know he knows he's screwed.
Let's really screw him.
You know,
that's exactly what their attitude was.
And,
and they did.
You know,
I had no choice.
I,
you know,
what was I supposed to do?
So when I had my auction,
these people,
I was willing,
I netted,
when I sold the property by myself to Travis Bussey and his partner,
Bob,
I netted $400,000 on the sale because I didn't use a realtor.
At the auction,
I would have had to pay the auctioneer 10% of the sales price to debt the 400,000.
I had it listed as a minimum reserve of 450,000.
And remember,
I am forfeiting my business.
The,
the,
the goodwill,
all this,
all that,
what I would call equity.
I'm giving it up.
And I says,
look,
if I advertise it in a minimum of 450,000,
we pay 10% of that to the auctioneer.
That leaves me with 405,000.
I,
if they would have bought it at that auction for 450,000,
I would have walked away,
but there wasn't one bid.
And it also is unique how I had five things that were reserved at the auction.
The bulldozer,
the land,
a,
a Cabalco backhoe,
my 72 Nova and a pair of jet skis.
It is unique how the jet skis made the minimum.
The Cabalco made the minimum.
The Nova went over the minimum and they sold.
But what two things did I keep the Cabalco?
I mean,
the Komatsu dozer and the property.
So,
so stop and think about this.
I wasn't supposed to walk away from this because the Komatsu was still there.
The bill property was still there.
If I would have gotten a bit of 450,000,
I would have netted 5,000 more than I actually netted.
Is that what it costs for you people to not pay?
Because what I'm going to do is going to be worth way more than the $5,000.
If you get,
I know I'm not very good at explaining this,
but I hope you get my drift here.
You know,
you blew it.
Maybe you say it didn't happen because it would have cost you 50,000 extra than what I actually netted.
Well,
you were telling everybody,
Cody was telling everybody that I talked to that the property was only worth 300,000.
Well,
Cody,
you were lying to people because I netted 400,000.
I would have netted 405 had I sold it at the auction.
You guys could have gotten rid of me.
But that was one of those things.
I've said,
God,
if it brings 450,000,
I'm out of here.
I'm done.
I'll forget it.
I'll live.
I'll get on with my life.
It didn't bring it.
It just amazes me that it didn't because I was so close to walking away from this.
Anyway,
so I got the dozer and I got the building.
Another thing that was very,
very unique was now,
how am I going to do?
What am I going to do with this dozer?
Okay,
I had it up on the driveway for sale.
And according to the Richie Brothers auction sales at that time,
that dozer was selling nationally for as much as $43,000.
Okay,
I don't believe that any of the Komatsu D355s were as in good shape as this one was.
This Komatsu was owned by,
I believe it was,
Fresno Tractor.
And they'd owned it for about six years and had rented it out.
And this Komatsu was in excellent condition.
If any Komatsu D355 should have brought $54,000,
which is what I had it at,
that one should have.
I was willing at the auction to take $33,000 for it.
Couldn't get a bid.
I got a $20,000 bid.
That was the only real bid we got.
Well,
I had $24,000 in it.
I'm not going to sell it for $24,000.
I'm going to sell it for that,
especially when Richie Brothers says it's worth $43,000.
So I kept the dozer.
What was unique,
after everything's gone,
I find out that the dozer is two inches shorter than 12 feet
and will go into the storage building.
It is one inch narrower than the door.
If I take the little bottom,
the edging browsers off,
or whatever they call them,
on the dozer blade,
if I take those off,
that dozer will go in my storage building.
So I says,
well, let's put it inside,
because then I can build it to do what I am supposed to do.
And I could not believe it.
I put up a four by eight piece of plywood on each side of the door
so that the blade would go through,
drove that thing up there,
got out to where the cab was close to the door,
checked the clearance,
and I had two, three inches of clearance.
I drove it right in there.
It fit through that door so tight,
you almost had to grease it to get it in there.
Why did that particular dozer fit in the building?
Why had I not bought one of the D9s at that Fresno auction?
It doesn't make any sense.
You know, a D9's got more horsepower.
It's probably more dependable than a Komatsu.
If I'd have bought one of them,
I'd have never gotten in that building.
Because they were much taller than the Komatsu was.
So I'm thinking, well, this is good.
I get it inside, now I can build it.
Must be what I'm supposed to do.
Put it inside under the guise that, you know, it's wintertime.
I'm not going to be here.
Everything's sold.
I don't have a muffler shop anymore.
I'm going to go snowmobiling.
I got to keep it out of the weather,
and I got to keep it away from the frigging criminals down there in Granby
who are going to come by
and sabotage it,
which did happen to my place more than once
in the 10 years, 11 years that I was down there.
People would steal different things and so forth.
I mean, it was...
It's a sick town.
Other than have the store that I had in Commerce City,
the muffler shop, which got broke into one time,
I never had any problems with theft
in any of the businesses that I ever owned
or any of the shops that I ever run.
But in Granby, I had problems.
And there may be good reasons for that
because it wasn't sitting on the main street and so forth.
Whatever, you know.
But there were more break-ins in my building in Granby
than any business I have ever owned.
There was four to be exact.
Three were attempted, I should say,
where they didn't get in, or if they did, they didn't take anything.
The one time that they did take anything,
they stole some wheels off of a street rod that I had
sitting in front of the building.
And those people got caught.
And I got restitution from one of them.
There were three kids.
One of them paid his restitution.
The other two, for all I know, they're in jail today.
But it's just the way that town is.
It's just...
You know, they're poor.
Right now, I think that everybody's probably got a lot of money in their pockets
because we've had a pretty good economy up here.
Over the last five or six years.
But those people all could have a million dollars each.
They would still be poor.
They're poor in mind.
They're poor in pocketbook.
They're poor in spirit.
They're poor in heart.
They're just poor people.
And I don't know.
You know, it's...
They need to stop thinking that they need to...
They have to get some self-esteem, some self-respect,
and love their neighbors.
And not try to deprive them of a right to make a living.
To have their dreams realized.
And it's sad that people down there do that.
And I'm talking about the leaders of the community.
They keep people down.
Because if they didn't,
the real cream of the crop would rise to the top
and knock them from their position.
But of course, their definition of cream of the crop
is to see how devious you can be to screw your neighbor.
If you're devious enough and you're smart enough
and wily enough to screw your neighbor,
then you're the cream and you should be on top.
You shouldn't earn it through doing honest, hard work.
You have to get together, have secret meetings.
You have to spend years conniving,
waiting for an opportunity to screw your neighbor.
Well, I've never done it and I ain't planning on doing it.
Other than what I'm doing now.
And this will be the first time that I've ever done something like that
the way they want it to be done.
The way they do it.
To do it in secret.
To do things behind their back.
To lie to you.
When you ask them what their plans are and they won't tell you.
I've had to do that. People ask me,
what am I doing?
Oh, I'm not doing anything.
I spent the whole summer of 2003 in that friggin' building.
I lived there.
Without a shower for as much as four days at a time.
Working on that dozer.
Getting it prepared to do what I have to do.
And that's another thing that was so uncanny.
Talk about getting caught.
Why didn't I get caught?
Why haven't I been caught?
Or why didn't I get caught up to now?
Last fall, when Travis and Bob go to buy the place,
they need to have their insurance man come in and see the storage building.
They want to see inside.
Now, I had put up a temporary wall.
And I had insulated that whole building that summer.
And had started working on this dozer.
I had this dozer about half done.
By maybe three quarters done by the time they wanted this insurance guy to come in.
I had to clean that whole shop up.
Hide all the steel.
The welders.
Hide all that stuff in a little room in the corner.
I built out of two by fours and canvas.
And then what did I do?
I took polypropylene tarps.
And I covered the dozer.
Which I had the whole cab armor on.
I had about half of the engine armor on.
And I covered it up with tarps.
And taped it all shut.
And I says, you know, maybe this is where I'm supposed to get caught.
They're going to come in here.
They're going to get nosy.
They're going to want to know what's under this dozer.
They're going to find out that I'm building this.
And somebody's going to go call the cops.
And they're going to put a stop to it.
Well, that's the way it's supposed to be.
Catch me.
Okay.
They came in there after I had the shop all cleaned up.
Had everything put away.
Had the dozer covered up with these polypropylene tarps.
I even put a lift in there.
To lift all this steel onto the dozer.
This lift was about.
20 feet long.
Had a 20 foot arm on it.
With an electric winch.
And it swung on a post.
And that's how I lifted all this steel.
To get it on there.
Okay.
The lift is there.
So these guys come in.
Oh, wow.
What's this?
This is the dozer.
Oh, okay.
What's this lift?
They say.
And I say, well, I made up this story about this guy from Minnesota.
Who was a professor at the university there.
And was working.
Working on a system to.
It was called.
I can't even think of it right now.
When you deep freeze things.
Cyrochirogenics or something like that.
I said this professor was perfecting a chirogenics cooling system.
To go in the intake of the diesel engine.
Which would cool the air.
And increase.
And increase the performance of the engine.
And increase the hourly fuel consumption.
And they bought it.
I said, but the lift goes when I leave.
When this guy comes to pick his dozer up.
After he's done all this testing.
We had to put this lift in.
So we could lift this big 800 pound condenser up on the back.
Which he had mismeasured.
And we.
They had to take it back to Minnesota.
And then he's got this other evaporator that we had to lift.
Plus the big.
The pump has got to go on there.
We're running that off of a drive.
An auxiliary drive.
PTO drive that they've got on the engine.
I had this whole bullshit story.
And they went along with it.
You know.
I said.
I couldn't believe it when they walked out the door.
I'm safe.
How come they didn't catch me?
It was right there under their nose.
Well.
I wasn't supposed to get caught.
Not yet.
Maybe I will.
Maybe this whole thing will come to stop early.
That's the way it's supposed to be.
I will accept that.
They took away my life.
They took away my future.
They took away my hope.
They took away any desires that I had.
I cannot operate in a community of people.
. . .
that does that to their neighbors.
I wasted 13 years of my life down there.
Because the Thompsons were pissed off that I bought that property.
You put yourself in my shoes and tell me how you would feel at 50 years old.
. . .
You've wasted 10 years of your life because of someone's malice.
Because of their jealousy.
Because of their greed.
Because of their hate.
I'm 52 now.
That's why I talk about 12, 13 years.
You know, it was 10 years then.
You know, it just isn't right.
I cannot.
. . .
There used to be a time when I could withstand these types of losses.
I could never afford them.
You can never afford to lose money.
You can withstand it and you can recover sometimes.
Most of the time I looked at it that way it was because I was young and I was strong.
And I could go out and physically do the work.
I'm 52 now.
I can't do it.
I can't withstand it.
I can't recover.
We're talking about losing $300,000 which along with the sale of the property would have been my retirement.
Would have let me go on to do other things to make more wealth.
But when you take 10 years of my life away and just piss it down the drain
and are happy about it and ecstatic about it.
No.
I've taken all I can take.
How I react, yes it's a reaction.
That's how it's supposed to be.
That's how God built me.
You know.
It is not my fault.
What that one guy say, those who made me your enemies or enemy.
Those who made me your enemy.
They are the guilty ones.
The Thompsons are guilty.
The Docheffs are guilty.
The Granby Town Board is guilty.
The Granby Planning Commission is guilty.
My neighbors are guilty.
It took all of you 10 years to get me.
And you got me.
No doubt about it.
I got screwed big time.
We talked today about it to Dave Patner.
He knows I got fucked.
And he knows that they do it.
And they get away with it.
There's nothing you can do about it.
He says, well, I'm going to do something about it.
It may only change people for a generation.
Maybe two.
May not change them at all.
Maybe make them worse.
That's the way it's supposed to be.
And that's the way it will be.
God's will be done.
Through me.
We're going to...